<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets">
    <div class=" container-fluid">
        <div style="background-image:url(/oxauth/ext/resources/help-banner.png); background-repeat:no-repeat; width:auto; height:132px; margin-left:8px; ">
            <h2 style="margin-left:250px" class="mrgn-tp-md">Need Help?</h2>
            <p style="margin-left:250px" class="fontsize140">
                <strong>We may have the perfect answer for you</strong>
            </p>
        </div>
        <div class="panel-body">
            <div>
                <h2 class="mrgn-tp-0">Top questions</h2>
            </div>
            <details>
                <summary>
                    <strong>Which departments are presently accepting ATIP requests online?</strong>
                </summary>
                <div class="module-answer module-simplify margin-top-small margin-bottom-small">
                    <p>
                        To view the complete list of participating departments, consult the
                        <a href="https://atip-aiprp.apps.gc.ca/atip/contactUs.do?caller=/atip/welcome.do">Contact Us</a>
                        page.
                    </p>
                </div>
            </details>
            <details>
                <summary>
                    <strong>What do I need to submit a request online?</strong>
                </summary>
                <div class="module-answer module-simplify margin-top-small margin-bottom-small">
                    <p></p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>
                            Proof that you have the right to make a request:
                            <ul>
                                <li>A proof of Canadian citizenship, such as a copy of your passport or citizenship certificate;</li>
                                <li>A proof of your status as a permanent resident, such as a copy of your permanent resident card; or</li>
                                <li>A proof of temporary status in Canada, such as a work, study and/or visitor permit.</li>
                            </ul>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            Consent, if applicable:
                            <ul>
                                <li>If you are making a request on behalf of someone else, you must include consent to release their information.</li>
                                <li>The consent must be signed and dated by the person authorizing the disclosure of his/her information.</li>
                                <li>You should include the consent for each individual over the age of 18 that may be listed in your file.</li>
                                <li>
                                    If submitting your request to
                                    <abbr title="Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada">IRCC</abbr>
                                    , please use the
                                    <em>Consent for an Access to Information and Personal Information Request</em>
                                    form (IMM 5744).
                                </li>
                            </ul>
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            Credit card, if your request is being made under the
                            <em>Access to Information Act:</em>
                            <ul>
                                <li>
                                    There is a $5.00 application fee for these requests. There are no fees under the
                                    <em>Privacy Act</em>
                                    .
                                </li>
                                <li>At the end of the application, you will be automatically directed to an e-Payment tool, where you will be required to pay your $5.00 application fee using a Visa, MasterCard or American Express credit card.</li>
                            </ul>
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                    <p></p>
                </div>
            </details>
            <details>
                <summary>
                    <strong>What can I expect from the online tool?</strong>
                </summary>
                <div class="module-answer module-simplify margin-top-small margin-bottom-small">
                    <p></p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>The ATIP online request consists of a series of questions, which must be answered in sequence in order to proceed (unless the question is optional).</li>
                        <li>
                            Please note that this request will not save your information; therefore you must complete the entire request at one time. Also,
                            <strong>do not</strong>
                            use your browser's navigation buttons "Back" and "Forward", as they will not work, and all of your information will be lost.
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            If you are unsure of how to answer a question, use the
                            <strong>"Help"</strong>
                            feature by clicking on the icon in the top-right corner of the question box. This feature provides information to assist you when answering questions.
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            After you have answered all of the questions, you will be presented with a
                            <strong>document checklist</strong>
                            , which will list the documents you need to provide. You must scan and attach your documents with your request.
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            After you have completed your online request and paid your fee (if applicable), you will receive an e-mail confirming that we have received your request. If it was made under the
                            <em>Access to Information </em>
                            <em>Act</em>
                            , you will also receive a payment receipt in this e-mail.
                        </li>
                    </ul>
                    <p></p>
                </div>
            </details>
            <details>
                <summary>
                    <strong>What happens if I submit my request to the wrong department?</strong>
                </summary>
                <div class="module-answer module-simplify margin-top-small margin-bottom-small">
                    <p></p>
                    <ul>
                        <li>
                            Requests made under the
                            <em>Access to Information Act</em>
                            may be transferable to a federal institution with greater interest under certain circumstances. Requests for records from multiple institutions cannot be transferred.
                        </li>
                        <li>
                            Requests made under the
                            <em>Privacy Act</em>
                            cannot be transferred.
                        </li>
                        <li>If the institution that received the request does not hold the requested documents and the request cannot be transferred, you will receive a formal response indicating this.</li>
                    </ul>
                    <p></p>
                </div>
            </details>
            <details>
                <summary>
                    <strong>Did you know that your request for corporate records may have already been released?</strong>
                </summary>
                <div class="module-answer module-simplify margin-top-small margin-bottom-small">
                    <p>
                        Using keywords, you can
                        <a href="https://open.canada.ca/en/search/ati" rel="external" target="_blank">search summaries of completed ATI requests</a>
                        for all government institutions. If you find information of interest, you can request the previously released documents directly from your search results. Please note that fees are not required for such request and there are no deadlines for responding.
                    </p>
                </div>
            </details>
        </div>
    </div>
</ui:composition>